I didn't realize it until I got older I
was just a young kid and that was
molested
[__] please welcome Charlamagne the god
co-host of The Breakfast Club and
America's most influential radio host
growing up my father was telling me if
you don't change your lifestyle you
going to end up in jail dead or broke
the problem was he wasn't practicing
what he was preaching when I started
selling drugs I found out he was selling
drugs then he had an affair on my mom so
I became a player because I felt I had
to be like my pops but then I ended up
getting in a situation where a shooting
happened and going to jail but I was
able to finally wake up and I was smart
enough to realize whatever I want to be
doing 5 years from now I got to start
doing now and then the microphone
ultimately changed your life I didn't
know that you had 12 years of rejection
I got fired four times I just collected
my last unemployment check I was scared
to death but you can't live life with
fear you got to live life with faith
next gig I got was The Fast Forward 3 4
years I'm having more success than I've
ever had in my life but I just was not
happy I was losing myself and um those
Suicidal Thoughts just cross your mind
for no reason you know and even even
now what what am I still doing
here man
we've just hit 6 million subscribers on
the D Co um so me and my team would like
to do something we've never done before
as little thank you and we're calling it
The di Co subscriber raffle and here is
how it works every episode this month
we're going to pick three current
subscribers at random and we'll send one
of you a 1,000 voucher one of you
tickets to come and watch the dire SE
behind the scenes live with our team and
one of you will have a 10-minute phone
call with me to discuss whatever you
want to talk about if you're a
subscriber you're in the raffle thank
you from the bottom of my heart for
allowing me to do something that me and
my team love doing so much it is the
greatest honor of my lifetime and I hope
it I hope it continues uh off into the
Future Let's get to the
[Music]
episode get honest or d
Ling why did you choose those words why
did you choose that title um it's a play
it's a play on 50 cents Get Rich or Die
try you know um I'm always going to have
have you know some some some old hip hop
you know somewhere like my last book was
was shook one you know that was paying
homage to mob deep but also um you know
just talking about how I felt my whole
life when I would get get panic attacks
get anxiety attacks and get honest to
die ly that's you know not just to play
on 50 cents title that's how I truly
feel it's like yo if you don't get
honest with yourself you're going to die
lying like you know I had a um I went to
a spiritual Retreat you know back in
February me and my wife and like that's
one of the things that came up for me
you know that that that weekend at The
Retreat one of the things that came up
for me was stop lying to yourself and
stop volunteering those lies to others
and I think a lot of us do that you know
a lot like we we lie to ourselves and
then we just volunteer those lies to
other people like nobody even asked us
you know and I think I think social
media you know uh contributes to a lot
of that because every day you feel like
you have to you know feed this beast and
like you know you might go look at your
feed and at some point you got to ask
yourself who is this person you know or
just the just the things that you you
know say to people you know in your life
as you're as you're as you're just you
know growing and and evolving just as a
human you might just volunteer lies you
know for security purposes or the mask
the mask insecurity are you know the
mass fears and so it's just like yo if
you don't start getting honest with
yourself you going you going to die die
a liar the truth and the lies start
young for all of us absolutely
especially if you look at the stats for
black men because um they are much less
likely to get to the point where they
can get honest with themselves in their
whole selves their mental health
everything when I read through your
story I met an individual that I never
knew before I've watched The Breakfast
Club for years years and years and years
I've probably watched it for a decade I
think something something like that it's
always been my connection with us
culture has been watching that show and
I watched the guy that was a bit of an
antagonist to the guests coming on but I
never knew all of the other stuff and
you're one of the only black men that I
encountered especially in the United
States that has a big sort of public
figure who has been so unbelievably
honest
about what it is to be a complete man
and the complete Human Experience and
your complete experience that starts
very young if I am trying to understand
and the man that sits before me right
now where do I have to start to truly
understand oh you got to you definitely
got to start from the beginning you know
you got to start from that single wide
trailer you know in mon Corner South
Carolina you know growing up as as as a
young man you know to a a great great
father and a great mother I I say great
you know now in regards to my father
because I understand him as a man you
know there was a period in my life you
know especially when I first started
going to therapy I didn't know if I even
like lik him as a person you know
because you know you got to question
yourself you question things that he did
to you growing up you know just uh I
always said my dad raised me out of fear
and not love but the fear was just from
the standpoint of he didn't want me to
you know make the same mistakes that he
did and he didn't want to see me make
the same mistakes that he saw a lot of
people in our town making like you know
the one thing that he used to always
instill in me was like if you don't
change your lifestyle you going to end
up in jail dead or broke sitting under
the the tree and I think that's what
happens with kids a lot right like kids
you they end up miring you know the
parent and I think sometimes when you
see yourself you know in your child if
you made a lot of mistakes and you know
you bumped your head a lot of times man
that'll probably terrify you to see your
child going down that that same path so
for me my journey would definitely have
to start um in Monks Corner South
Carolina in that in that single wi
trailer on that dirt
road you grew up in a a single trailer
in a a dirt road with a father that
seemed to be pretty absent from what it
says in your book you talked about him
raising you there but it sounded like he
very much also didn't raise you no he
was absent in the sense of he had his
own issues that he was dealing with you
know and I didn't find that out until
you know 2018 when I put out my second
book shook one anxiety playing tricks on
me where I really opened up about a lot
of my anxiety and a lot of my depression
and going to therapy I never forget it
it was Thanksgiving um it the week of
Thanksgiving
2018 and uh I had a younger cousin he
was like 24 25 years old he tried to
complete suicide four different times
and on the fourth time he he completed
it and it was the week that he completed
it and then on that on top of the fact
my father had just read my second book
he said to me um he called me and he
said you know he he talked about my
cousins and he talked about my book and
he said man I I was going to therapy two
and three times times a week and I tried
to kill myself you know 30 plus years
ago and you know I was on 10 to 12
different medications for my mental
health so when he said that to me I
already knew that he had the substance
abuse I knew he dealt with the substance
abuse issues right but I knew that but I
didn't know the other aspect of it so
when I realized that I'm like oh I get
it cuz my dad was absolutely you
know there when he was you know sober
for the most part or when he wasn't
dealing with his own issues but when
like I said the the the the way he
raised me was out of was out of uh fear
you know more than love but he
definitely you know had his foot on my
ass like on you know in a in a real way
just because he didn't want to want me
to make those um those same mistakes but
you know I always felt
like um growing up we didn't have the
the kind of relationship I wanted to
have that I would think a father and son
would have but that's only because he
was dealing with his own issues and then
he started you know having a an affair
on my mom so he really wasn't in the
house then like he was you know off off
with his his new family how what age
were you it had to be like 90 98 so
maybe I was
19 20 I probably might have been like
1920 when he when he like left the house
I I think can we model our sort of Al
relationships
we model our idea of relationships based
on the relationship we first see with
our parents I think about my own my
mom's Nigerian my dad's English a
household that was very loud to say the
least and I always thought my dad was in
prison so growing up I never had a
relationship because I thought women
were like I thought it was prison and it
was only until I got to about 30 years
old that I had a real relationship but
then I've had to go to therapy with my
partner over and over again to get out
of like being triggered by this idea
like whenever we have conflict I'm like
run cuz I always wanted my father to run
my mom so same same like I had that deep
in me that relationships were prison and
when I read through your story and
looked at your father and you know his
infidelity with with your mother I was
wondering how that impacted your future
perspective of what a relationship is oh
it had me it had me bad for a while CU
you know I've always been the type
person I like being with one one partner
you know what I'm saying I like being
with one woman like that's something
that I always thought was really cool
growing up probably because a lot of the
images that we saw especially on TV back
then it was always the nuclear house old
it was I was like the the mother and the
father whether it was you know the Cosby
sh whether it was Martin and Gina you
know whether it was you know the
Windslow on Family Matters like you know
whether it was the the Evans on Good
Times before James died whether it was
the Jefferson like you always saw you
know a black man you know with a with a
with a black woman and they had a family
like that was what I always that's what
I thought the American dream you know
consisted of so that was like always
something in my mind that I wanted and
then uh I remember when I found out my
PO was cheating on my mom and I remember
just confronting him about it and just
asking him I never forget it he was in
my uh in my room with my mom's house and
I used to have like this one of those
exercise bikes in the room and he was
riding he was on he he wasn't working
out but he he came in to get on the
exercise bike cuz I needed to talk to
him and I bought it up to him and I
remember him just saying to me like yo
so so you only got one woman huh looked
me right in the eyes and that's what he
said he was like you only got one woman
huh and I was like what you mean I only
got one woman he was like huh you know
like when you get older you'll
understand like literally so planting
that in my head just made me feel like
am I doing something wrong am I supposed
to have you know one woman so I spent
like a large majority of my life trying
to trying to show him that I was like a
player I was like I was like my Pops I
was like you know I was I I I had I had
I had a I had a roster too right only
for him to come all the way back around
to tell me I always had it
right literally don't only come back and
tell me you know one of the worst
mistakes he ever made you know was was
was was leaving leaving my mom or or
causing my mom to leave him however
which way it went and I I remember him
saying that to me and he just was like
man you know you you you you've always
had it right but that just kind that
shows you right just because somebody is
older than you you know doesn't mean
that they're they're right doesn't mean
that they're always correct like we're
always growing we're always evolving if
we allow ourselves too and you know
we're going to figure out later on in
life that yeah we did make a mistake you
know doing whatever it is that we were
doing and we should be able to admit
that no matter the age and correct it no
matter the age eight years old your
cousin's ex-wife had a sexual encounter
with you MH and you talk about these
sexual encounters changing your
personality
thereafter when did you decide to speak
about this and and when did you begin to
learn the implications that that one
instant sort of incident when you were
that age had had on you throughout your
life well I used to always make jokes
about it right because I you know I used
to always say um you
know I I I used to always say that I
used to buy these there used to be like
these little firecrackers that were like
these little poppers so you could throw
them on the ground and they would pop
and so it's like one day I just started
throwing them at her cuz I didn't want
her to touch me and um when when I did
that she started calling me ugly like
literally from that moment like oh you
ugly you got a big nose you know she'd
be telling everybody look at his no I
think his nose is swollen so like to the
point where my grandma God bless the
dead would like take cream and put it on
my nose to try to reduce the swelling it
wasn't swollen she was just messing with
me so in my mind it was like a
psychological thing like she was she was
she was messing with me mentally and how
old was she I don't know you know she
was 30 40 50 oh yeah she was definitely
older yeah yeah yeah and you were eight
I was eight yeah yeah yeah and um I
remember her I remember her uh me
telling people the reason I made her
stop cuz I didn't like to smell of her
Jerry cut so that was always that was
always the joke and I remember watching
uh Tyler Perry on the open Winfrey Show
and I remember watching him cry over a
older woman who molested him and I
remember thinking to myself what's wrong
with him cuz the way we rationalized it
in our mind is like when you young you
just used to talk about it like it was a
sexual encounter and it was when I think
about it now like I had like me like you
know three of my other younger friends
and all of us were talking about these
sexual encounters we were having with
older women so now that I think back on
it I'm like damn we all was getting you
know molested you just don't look at it
like that when you're a young man when
you look at it when you're a young man
you look at it like I'm just getting
action early so when I saw you know
Tyler on Oprah that's when I first
started like thinking about it and I
remember this was I forgot what year
this was but this was way way way back
in the day but I remember there was
Twitter and remember tweeting about it
but I was tweeting about it in just like
you know like wondering like what the
hell is wrong with Tyler Perry you know
but then I had to start asking what's
wrong with me that like I that I'm not
reacting to being molested the way that
you know he is but then you don't even
realize that it's molestation till you
get old at least I didn't realize it
until I got older and I was like oh I
was getting molested and then when you
start going to therapy and you start
peeling back you know the layer of that
that that trauma you start
realizing oh this is why I am the way I
am in regards to pleasing people because
I felt like even though what she was
doing to me was wrong and it made me
uncomfortable and I didn't like it I had
to keep doing it so she'd stop calling
me ugly cuz her calling me ugly was
really really really hurting my feelings
you know what I mean as a young
8-year-old kid so that's that leads to
you being a older adult who's a constant
people pleaser because you don't want to
let nobody down because you know if you
let them down then they'll talk bad
about you you know but that you realize
you got to set those boundaries because
if those people are going to if if
making if you making yourself
uncomfortable is the only way to please
said individual that individual don't
need to be in your life that's not
somebody that you have have have in your
your circle at
all you've never gone back and found out
who that person was and that done
anything about it no I see her you still
see her yeah I've seen her I've seen her
I've seen her around in my hometown
absolutely you're not interested
in N last time I saw her actually she
came up to me this was about let me see
2024 this probably had to be before Co
you know she came up to me at at at a
house party and she was like oh you so
handsome and I was like you you been
thought I was handsome Beat
It Like You Been thought I was handsome
like knock it
off y your behavior becomes problematic
15 years old
1993 I watched I sort of read through
from you were 15 up until you sort of
early 20s up to sort of 23 years old and
there was um quite
a shocking pattern of behavior involving
drugs and other things I I was wondering
not that early 15 I was still in I was
still in high school so I was I was I
was I was the disciplinary problems from
started in Middle School it started when
I was in like seventh grade and the
disciplinary problem started just
because you know my older cousins were
like what you would call I guess
bullying me right like they would I was
wearing glasses and I had the fanny pack
and I was in like what they had they
they used to call it uh the classes were
broken down in letters so it was like a
A and C were for like the smart students
right so I was in like the a class and
there was only like two black people in
the class two or three black people in
the class right rest is all white and so
like I would be with a lot of white
people for the most part and like my
cousins who were all from my daddy's uh
side of town they would bully me like
literally like they would just beat up
on me because I beat with all the white
kids cuz my dad is like a was a really
cool dude you know like he was like a
the the the the guy who always had like
the small little Sugar Shack where you
come over there and get your alcohol and
stuff like that and you know he he used
to hustle his his drugs stuff like that
people knew my pops my pops was a cool
dude so they they thought I was supposed
to be like that so being that I wasn't
like that they was like they would bully
me and um it just became one of those
things where it was like yo if you can't
beat them join them so it's like yo my
glasses fell off my face you know one
too many times and like that one time
where they fell and they just broke for
good that's when I broke for good and I
was just like you know what if I can't
beat him join them so I I just started
hanging with them and like in order to
hang with them I had to be I guess like
worse than them to prove myself in a lot
of ways so that's when like the
disruption really started in class
that's when the the class clown you know
really started to happen and that just
evolved into me getting left back a
couple of times you know I think I I
went to summer school twice in seventh
and eighth grade then I got left back in
ninth grade and that's when I actually
had to stay back and then by the time I
got to by the time I got to 10th grade
um I was getting kicked out of the
school I was in Berkeley High School and
they transferred me to to straford high
school where my mom taught cuz they
thought if I was my mom's school then I
would act better but most of my problems
from that point on started to be in the
street more so than you know in school
and so I ended up getting uh in a
situation where I was with you know some
of my homeboys and a shooting happened
and we all ended up going to jail and
they actually came and arrested me from
straford high school and that's the last
time I was in uh high school and you sat
in jail for 3 months no it was was like
40 I think 45 days something like that
yeah your dad could have bailed you out
my Dad could have bailed me out um but
he wanted to teach me a lesson like he
wanted me to learn from my mistakes so
he he let me sitting there for for 45
days and and sadly that wasn't it it was
a wakeup call but it wasn't the wake
wake up call it was more like I woke up
but then I hit the snooze button you
know slept for a little slept for a
little while longer before I finally got
up as a great man you can look back now
and think that 15 16 year old kid he
needed something that he wasn't getting
he needed a bunch of things he just
wasn't getting because you got kids now
yourself so you can if you saw that
behavior in your kid you wouldn't say oh
well I don't know I'm putting words in
your mouth here but you probably
wouldn't think okay they need to go to
jail and sit in jail for a while you'd
probably look at it and go there's
something unmet there man that's such an
interesting question because when I do
think back on it I say to myself I
didn't have to do none of that like
that's my mindset now like I didn't have
to do any of that like um my mother was
an English teacher she was a Jehovah's
Witness my grandmother was a Baptist
they absolutely taught me better like I
absolutely positively knew better I had
the example of my father you know if my
father had been probably more honest
with me about um his life and you know
the things he had went through and who
who who who he was then I probably would
have seen a lot of those obstacles
coming cuz I got to the point even when
I started selling drugs when I found out
he was also selling drugs you you can't
tell me not to do it you know like like
you can't be on some don't do as I do do
as I say type stuff I remember us having
that conversation and he was like well
this my house so you're not going to be
doing that in my house like cuz you you
making me hot right like like literally
and so I feel like you know for me I was
just a young
impressionable kid who wanted what every
single human being wants and that's just
simply security and if you don't get
security you know from people you will
you will find a way to get it so me you
know
becoming that that version of myself I
was then was that was just literally for
security that was for survival like I
was just literally a kid that was tired
of getting bullied but you know once you
get down on that path you know if nobody
stops you there will be things that stop
you like jail you know are sadly in some
cases deaf but then it's too late so I
just always thank God that you know even
though I I got caught up and I made
those mistakes I was able to you know
finally you know wake
up I've sat with Buster ryes and uh
Ashley welters and they talk a lot about
their fathers and they also talk about
the absence of male role models often
for for young black men and how the the
impact of that I've actually come up to
learn the impact of that by having these
conversations over and over with black
men that didn't have a a male role model
in their life that could stop them from
going down that path and I don't think
it's talked about
enough because I've learned about it
from Buster ryes and from Ashley Walters
from Top booy um and it's really made me
think that there's something we need to
think more of in society for especially
for people that are have sort of single
parents or have an absent father or an
emotionally absent father I think we
could save a lot of um Downstream
consequences with mental health crime
and all of those things if we thought
more about the importance of real male
role
oh yeah I mean listen I I had I had a a
a a male role model in my father but the
problem with my father was he wasn't
practicing what he was preaching so you
know you have to be about actions you
can't just be about words and lip
service people have to see you and and
and see that you're you know a a living
walking example of what it is that
you're telling others like you know I
didn't even believe that men could be
faithful to their women until I started
seeing it
from people that I actually knew like
you know it's it's it's it's one thing
for somebody to tell you they are but
like let's just say you know you're
you're you're out and about at a at a
television shoot and you know you're out
of town right and you and this person or
these people are hanging around after
the shoot and their wife is nowhere in
sight and they got every opportunity to
do the wrong thing but they like nah I'm
going back to my room you know what I'm
saying I love I'm got to get home to my
wife like or Nah then you where you
that's when you strike up conversations
like really like then like n I'm
faithful you know what I'm saying like
literally like those are the
conversation is like no I'm faithful I
don't I don't get down like that and you
like oh all right that's respectful you
know so it's just like actions speak way
louder than words man and and the thing
I love about the area that we're in now
you know this is the first generation
we're the first generation of of of
people that I feel like we have the
luxury of
healing our the people before us our
parents you know I'm 45 my my parents
they were just scratching and surviving
they were just trying to figure it out
they were just trying to trying to make
it they were trying to keep some food on
the table and a roof over their head we
are the first generation that has the
luxury of actually healing and I think
that's a beautiful thing
so
true there's a lot of Role Models
emerging now on the internet you know do
you think about like the Andrew Tates of
the world and all of those conversations
and at the same time what it is to be a
man has become quite unclear in many
respects like gender roles and there's a
lot of because of you know we're in the
the post Meo movement where a lot of
inappropriate behavior was called out
and it's funny a guy came up to me in
the gym Life Time Gym just down the road
from here in Brooklyn yesterday came up
to me 25-year-old kid wearing a
Barcelona shirt tapped me on the
shoulder said I love you podcast I
listen to a lot one question he goes I'm
25 years old he goes where do I find
male role models and I remember I was
with Will in the gym and I just remember
thinking it's so interesting because I'm
getting that conversation over and over
and over again I think what he's
actually saying is like what is a man in
20204 and um who do I model myself on
because there is a lot of you know if
you go on like Twitter there's a crowd
of people that are saying
Lamborghini um 17 women
Rolex loads of money and I'm not
necessarily sure that's a great example
either and and then you look at the
stats around Su suicidality amongst men
in the UK where I'm from the single
biggest thing that's has the chance of
killing you is suicide if you're over
the age of 18 and under the age of 45 as
a man it's yourself and I just think
about put all this in context this sort
of like looking for Role Models
masculinity is really unclear we've
called out men do we need to call them
back in what matters if you got a young
son I got all girls I got four daughters
four girls D yeah me and my wife got
four daughters I guess it just depends
what you're trying to model like we use
that term role model but what does the
term role model mean because you know
you can only model yourself after what
somebody shows
you you can only model you know yourself
off what somebody presents so if you
like that person's Lamborghini if you
like that Rolex if you like the clothes
that they got on if you like their
jewelry then you're going to say to
yourself okay that's what I want so
that's what you're modeling you're not
necessarily modeling the man you're ma
you're modeling the man's things yeah
you know you might as well be a
mannequin you might as well be you might
as well be looking up the mannequins you
know it's hard to like really you know
model yourself after somebody's you know
personality after somebody's morals
after somebody's values after somebody's
beliefs cuz you don't necessarily know
exact what they are and especially on
social media you just know what people
present so you got to be very careful of
that like I would tell people man you
know yeah if you admire something about
a person cool you know let that be like
a a a guide for you so to speak it it
gives you a it's like a flare going up
in the air so you kind of know which
direction you may want to go but you
don't know that
individual the only per individual that
you will ever truly know is you what
kind of man do you want to be are you
trying to be with the therapy with the
work you've done with your books Etc
what are you what kind of man are you
trying to be a good man and what does
that mean um just somebody who is who
they say they are like that's what I
always tell people and that's what I
constantly tell myself I want to be who
I say I am I want to be who you know if
if you see me um saying something if you
see that that I'm telling you that this
is what I believe in if I'm telling you
this is my truth I want you to know that
that's exactly who I am like you're not
going to you know hear something in the
future and be like oh my God this dude
had a whole other life going on and you
know he had this going on over here and
that going on over here and nobody ever
knew about it no I'm a I'm a faithful
husband you know I am a a learning
father and the reason I say learning is
because you there's no class on being a
parent none whatsoever anybody tells you
that that they got that figured out they
are lying I got a 15 yearold a
8-year-old a 5-year-old and a 2-year-old
and every single one of them you know
challenged me and my wife in completely
different ways and there's been plenty
of times when me and my wife sit around
you know late at night or at dinner
somewhere or just sitting around talking
in the bed asking ourselves if we
getting it right so like there's no you
know blueprint or no manual on to be
that but I just want to be um I want to
be the adult that I feel like I needed
when I was a child you know I want to be
present um I want to be I want I want to
raise them out of love which is very
hard especially being that I deal with
you know really bad anxiety in a lot of
ways and I talk about parental paranoia
a lot and you know you just have to man
you have to let go and let God like I'm
a faithful person because I have no
choice but to to be you know I'm a
optimistic person because I have no
choice but to be like you know the the
opposite of you know fateful is worry
the opposite of faithful is doubt and
like you can't raise kids in that way
because they got they got to live their
own life my 15-year-old she wants to go
hang out I can't worry about what may
happen you know at the mall and you know
you you open up a newspaper and you see
all types of crazy stuff happening in
the world and you see crazy things
happening to other people's kids and you
know you just it's like y I don't want
my my child to ever get caught up in
anything like that but man sadly that's
just not your call and you just can't
live life like that man you can't live
life um with fear you got to live life
with faith with all this work you've
done on your mental health to understand
the anxiety and um the bouts of
depression and so on have you been able
to pinpoint the causal factors of it in
your early years oh yeah I mean my being
being molested at 8 yeah was definitely
definitely part of it um
um definitely the the the bullying you
know early on uh
definitely
wanting uh wanting my father to raise me
out of love and not fear um one of the
main things that I I realized when I had
like one of my first breakthroughs in
therapy was when I realized my dad used
to discipline me for things he never
taught
me all right so I remember one one one
example I always tell is like I just got
my driver's license and so he told me to
follow him somewhere and he was like
follow me do what I do like all right
driving he's driving and we're coming
off uh gilard Road in Mons Corner South
Carolina about to get on the highway
highway is Highway 52 so we're driving
and we get
to the stop sign but he doesn't stop he
just drives onto the highway so I drove
onto the highway you know
and he pulls over to the side of the
road I pull over to the side of the road
what I didn't notice was you know you're
coming down the highway you're driving
he he drove like maybe a not I want to
say a split second but like several
seconds before a car was coming and so I
came right behind him so the car had to
Swerve out of the way I didn't even
notice that so he tells me to pull over
he pulls over so I pull over he gets out
the car he comes to the window slaps the
[__] out me right I'm like he's like
wake up that's all he said
I'm just sitting there like I mean I
think about that now but there's no
teaching in that where was the teaching
in that I ain't even realize what I did
wrong you told me to do everything that
you did you literally said do what I do
you ran the stop sign so I ran the stop
sign and then once you slap the [__] out
me you don't even tell me what I did
wrong so that's why I said my father
used to discipline me for things that he
never even taught me so I think um um
that's where a lot of the insecurity and
anxiety and you know impostor syndrome
that's where a lot of that comes from
you know and the the bouts of depression
I don't that's probably just some a
chemical a chemical imbalance or
something cuz like that's just I
constantly have to pump myself up and I
do that through prayer I do that through
you know daily affirmations you know I
do that through like um just constantly
telling myself I belong you know and
that's something I remember being young
my affirmation used to be I love Jehovah
God and his son Jesus Christ and I would
say that three times then I would say
[__] Satan and I would say that three
times and that is what used to get me
like okay I'm ready I'm ready for the
day I'm ready for whatever you know the
the day is going to deliver me so yeah
it's just all of those things from my
childhood contributed to those
issues at some point it appears that you
reached a sort of personal Rock Bottom
in those sort of early
20s and you made a decision to
that enough was enough and I find that
so interesting because I sit here with
so many people who reach that moment
where they they look at their lives and
they go listen look look at what I'm
doing with myself and some of them carry
on going and they're probably not around
to sit in the chair and then some of
them Hit That Rock Bottom moment and
they go I can't carry on doing this with
my life and they make a decision to take
at least one footstep in some positive
direction and that starts to compound
for them is that accurate is that an
accurate description of what happened
cuz I cuz I cuz I learned early that
everything my father was saying was true
so my father was telling me if you don't
change your lifestyle you going to end
up in jail dead or broke under the tree
I actually saw that starting to happen
to not just myself but people around me
so you know I had my stin in jail but
then I had people around me that was
going to jail for like five years like
they were going to jail for actual
prison sentences and you know I had
people around me that were dying that
were actually you know getting killed
and I saw like you know people that I
used to once look up to who were older
than me sitting under the tree literally
doing nothing with their lives like
becoming that next generation of you
know people who just sit under the tree
all day and drink or do drugs or
whatever it is so I saw that happening
and I was just one of those kids that
was smart enough to realize man whatever
I'm doing today will directly impact
what happens in my life tomorrow and
that's all that's been my mindset since
I was you know early 20 years old like
whatever I want to be doing 5 years from
now I got to start doing now literally
that's always been my mindset and so you
know when I finally um got that break to
find the internship in
radio like just being in that
environment being around that in 1998 as
an intern
literally made me say okay this is what
I want to do with my future before that
I didn't know what I wanted to do I was
going speaking of male role models like
I had you know Uncle Uncle Henry he
worked at UPS I'm like all right maybe
UPS is the move I had a uh one of my
mother's cousins named Bruce he was in
the military okay maybe being in the
military is is the move for me like I
was just trying to figure out you know
what I was going to do with my adult
life and you know I started working a
bunch of odd jobs I did I did
telemarketing I worked at a clothing
store called demo in the mall I worked
at a warehouse called industrial
Acoustics I worked at a flower garden I
worked at Taco Bell for a couple couple
of weeks cuz my sister was the manager
there I was just trying to figure things
out and at one point in my life I worked
at demo in the mall with my now wife I
worked at the telemarketing place and I
had stumbled upon an internship probably
like a year prior which was at the radio
station in 1998 and then around 1999 I
actually started being on the air and
once I started being on the air it just
started to let me see what the future
could potentially look like up until
that point did you have high hopes for
yourself in your future um
um because because because I thought I
was going to be a rapper cuz you know
most most young black men you know from
the hood you know in the late 90s or
from the the rural rural area that I was
from in mon Corner South Carolina you
know when you look on television or you
open up these magazines the people that
you see that are successful are usually
in rap hip-hop in some way shape or form
are Athletics and so I thought rapping
was going to be the way to get up off
that dir Road mon Corner South Carolina
that's why you know I got I got a tattoo
on my arm I got Wolverine from the X-Men
tattooed on my arm holding a microphone
in his hand I got this tattoo when I was
like I don't even know like 18 19
something like that and and I got it
made by a dude named T Willis T Willis
was a tattoo artist in South Carolina
tattoos weren't even illegal in this
time but I I got I got I got it I got it
tatted on my arm in his apartment and
the reason I got Wolverine holding the
microphone cuz always loved Wolverine
because I loved his healing powers I Lov
that he was able to heal quickly from
things this is this is me at 18 19 years
old not knowing anything about no
therapy not knowing anything about you
know the future journey I would go on of
healing this is just me back then being
a young comic book lover loving the fact
that Wolverine had these healing powers
and I had them holding the microphone
cuz I thought the microphone was going
to be you know what changed my life
which It ultimately did I just thought
it was going to be through through rap
music the microphone ultimately changed
your life I also didn't know that you'd
spent this really long stint on the
radio from sort of 20 years old doing
that internship right up until The
Breakfast Club when you're 32 years old
so that's 12 years but it's not just 12
years of work and graft and mastering
your skill it's also 12 years of
rejection getting fired over and over
and over and over again I got fired four
times I got fired from four different
radio stations I got fired from hot 9 89
in Charleston I used to do radio I
started my career at Z93 which I'm back
on now which is the actual Heritage
station so The Breakfast Club is
broadcast on Z93 so I'm back on Z93 but
um I left Z93 which was the big Heritage
station in Charleston to go work for an
up incoming station called high 989
simply because you know my man George
cook who's still a great mentor of mine
to this day he offered me a full-time
radio gig I was on Monday through FR
Monday through Saturday 7 to midnight I
had to take that making what I don't
know $199,000 a year or something like
that but that felt so good back then
because I was able to show my mom a
contract and say look I'm making a
salary I'm making
$199,000 a year right like that just
felt good to say that I had a job that I
had to be to you know uh every day and
and not just a job a job that um that
she knew about because she would hear me
on the radio what did your father think
oh he loved it like that was I mean even
when when I was on Z93 that was a big
deal cuz z9 was the was the Heritage
station like that was dation in
Charleston so that was a big deal for
him was he
surprised um having shared a jail cell
with you at one
point seeing your delinquency through
that period of your life was he
surprised man you know what's
interesting I've never had those
conversations with him even to this day
like I've never had like that
conversation with him
like n like you know he he might tell me
he's proud of me stuff like that but
we've never had like an indepth
conversation like my mom like me and my
mom have had like those in-depth
conversations like my mom has told me
things like you know you've accomplished
more than you know anybody in the family
ever thought about accomplishment
accomplishing or she'll show me like um
the the taxes my my
great-grandfather her father yeah her
father was it her father yeah her father
her father my grandfather she would show
me like the taxes that he would have to
pay on their land so like just to put
things in perspective you know for me
and um yeah like she's like I share
things with her like I share with her
how much I'm making or how much I made
doing something I I share things like
that with her and
um yeah she she she's she's very always
supportive and you know lets me know
like she's proud of me I remember she
she gave me the best advice a long time
ago she told me just be happy you making
a
living up survival generation but but
but she the way she said it was
basically basically saying you know this
is how you stay humble she was like just
be happy that you're able to make a
living and she's right cuz you know how
hard it is for some people to make a
living like like seriously it's just
it's hard for some people just to be
able to afford some some wings from the
grocery store like it's hard for people
can't afford daycare like things like
like just little small simple everyday
things that you know you and I may be
able to just take care of there's a lot
of people out here who can't so you
should very you should very much be
happy just to be making a a living so
her telling me that you know puts a lot
of things in perspective for me and then
that's kept a lot of things in
perspective for me but nah me and my
pops have never really we've never
really had those
conversations 32 years old you you
joined the Breakfast Club which is the
first time that I I saw you um heard
about you with was entertained by you
but before you joined the bref Breakfast
Club something else became really sort
of front of mine in your life which is
anxiety and panic attacks and you talk
about the the first sort of panic attack
you had while you were driving down into
say 26 in South car Carolina I had 26
that that was probably the first really
really really major one um the first one
I ever had was definitely in first grade
I would never forget that M Elementary
School I I don't I can't forget that to
this day like my mom dropped me off
first day of school
and I just could not calm down I mean
balling tears screaming like like I
could not stopped you know and and now
when I think back on it I'm like oh that
was I was straight up having a panic
attack I remember to look at my mom's
face like what is wrong with like what's
going on um but the one I had then that
was after being fired for the fourth
time from Radio I was back home living
with my
mom like you said I think I was 31 32 I
don't remember how old I was 3132 my
daughter was like one or two my now wife
was back living at home with her parents
in Mons Corner South Carolina and I
remember I was driving down i26 uh going
to Orangeburg to go see uh little Duval
at a comedy show he was at a comedy show
in um Orangeburg I forgot what school it
was and um yeah I just remember feeling
that feeling that I've always felt my
whole life heartbeating crazy fast mouth
getting dry Palm sweaty feeling
lightheaded dizzy had to pull over get
some water take a few deep breaths and
just told myself like look man I'm I'm
I'm going go to the doctor yet again cuz
I you know I always would check myself
in the emergency room whenever I would
have those kind of panic attacks CU I
always felt like I was having a heart
attack and so I went to the doctor and
the doctor was like nah you got to your
heart is fine you got a athletes heart
and then he was like um he said to me he
said yo you you deal with anxiety I like
anxiety what do you mean do I deal with
anxiety and he was
like um do the symptoms you're
describing sound like a panic attack he
said have you had these before and I'm
like yeah
and he was like are you stressed out
about anything and I'm like hell yeah
like you know and so he was like yeah it
sounds like you know that that's anxiety
you know and then he was telling me some
breathing exercises I could do to
possibly deal with it and then in my
mind after he said are you stressed out
about anything the first thing I thought
to myself was all I got to do is get
another job and everything will be a
okay I just got to get out my mom house
get my family back in position and
everything will be okay next gig I got
was The Breakfast Club and so you think
you fast forward three four years I'm
having more success than I've ever had
in my life I'm making more money than
I've ever made in my life everything is
going great but nothing's changed I'm
still having the panic attacks probably
even more so now I'm still dealing with
bout of depression and I can't figure
out why I just was not happy and so
that's what finally made me decide to
start you know going to therapy we
started Breakfast Club in 2010 I think I
started going to therapy around
2015 2015
2016 how bad did your your depression
get in those Z years there Z
30s oh no they got bad I mean they it
got it got it n it definitely got bad it
got bad to the point where like I was
the guy who you know you I I love to
laugh definitely love to laugh love to
joke love to have a good time but then
like yeah those Suicidal Thoughts just
cross your mind for no reason like
literally for absolutely no reason like
you know you you would it would it would
now's a good time to end it all like
just literally randomly and you like
what was that you know and even even now
sometimes it it it'll cross your mind
and it definitely it crosses your mind a
lot when you have like I had a a friend
who committed suicide you know um her
name was jazz jazz waters you know and
call her Jazz fly and me and her used to
lean on each other a lot like she
committed suicide during um Co and her
and I used to lean on each other a lot
like I used to call her like my my my
wartime General like you know when it
was like really time to you know get
busy and you know really strategize some
stuff that's who I would pick up the
phone and call and we would always have
these conversations about you know
therapy and you know depression and
anxiety and all of that from I mean deep
conversations I'm talking about we'
spend Sundays literally i' be in the
backyard sometimes three 4 Hour phone
conversations right like away from
everybody my my wife kids everyone just
really having conversation so you know
when she did it I remember um sitting in
my
backyard and and I heard her voice in my
head and it was like she she literally
said to me you still
here like on like you still like you
still there on Earth and I was I got
that that like kind of just shook me to
my core a little bit right and so it's
just like I constantly do not constantly
constantly is is a strong word but yeah
those those thoughts just cross your
mind I don't know if it's because it's
not cuz I actually want to do it or
because I'm thinking about doing it but
because I've had people close to me do
it and because I had those thoughts when
I was younger sometimes I don't know if
it's
to Sur survivors guilt maybe or
survivors remorse of it all that just
makes
you think about it like what what am I
still doing here you
know but then I got a million reasons to
still be here so that immediately makes
it makes it go away when when you have a
friend like that that passes in such
circumstances it's it a complex range of
feelings and he like I sat here with
someone who described that exact same
thing to me their best friend who had
said nothing to them was um always that
it was actually works on radio in the UK
um both of them worked on radio then his
radio partner one day died by Suicide
never said anything to anybody appeared
to be fine in the complex set of
emotions that he's left with the regret
the feelings of what if what if ID said
something did I reach out all of those
kinds of things is there anything that I
could have done all of those
feelings what is that complex set of
emotions that
you man
yeah you can't do that to yourself you
you
will but you can't do that to yourself
because like I was saying earlier when I
talked about you know modeling when you
say the word role model and you're
modeling yourself after people you don't
know what's behind all of those layers
of a human like we're complex creatures
like to me she
was one of the most intelligent
brilliant creative strategic human
beings I ever met in my life and she was
somebody that you know so many of us
went to and I never felt I didn't I
didn't I didn't you know guilt myself
with that because I know that she would
come to me with stuff too and I would
always be an ear for her like I was
always there for her
um but yeah y yo you it is it's just to
act like that to narrow it down the one
emotion is crazy like you know you'll go
through sadness you'll go through anger
you'll go through happiness you'll go
through frustration you'll go through um
thinking about those last moments that
that person was here and you'll be
saying to yourself I I I tried like like
like I tried that's all that's that's
that's that's what I know that's what I
do know I know for a fact I tried like
it's it's not like we didn't you know
you didn't see things you know so it's
not like we didn't try to get that
person all the help and more that that
that they needed but yeah it is it is it
is a very very complex set of
emotions something that you can't even
really put in words and not even not
something I'm trying to suppress either
like you know it is one of those things
you want to you you you want to
constantly confront but it's it's a it's
just very complex
cuz you wish that you could have had you
what you really wanted you wish you
could have talked to that person that
day you wish you could have had a
conversation with that person that
day that's what you really wish you know
and see where they see where they were
at in that
moment and and you and and hopefully if
you because you all every I think
everybody would probably do that
everybody probably says the same thing I
probably say the same thing her mom
probably says the same thing her father
probably says the same thing her sister
probably says the same thing if I would
have spoke to her that day you know I
probably could
have got her in a better place but
that's not the way that's not the way
the universe had it had it designed your
external Life Changes rapidly when um
your external your world your everything
around you changes when you become as a
star in The Breakfast Club but
internally you say nothing really
changes if not if anything it was
potentially worse the panic attacks
anxiety the bouts of depression a lot of
people will be surprised by that because
as a big as you say people think that
you get the job you get the money you
get the
fame I was losing myself because you got
to think I'm still in survival mode I'm
still coming off being fired four times
you got to think what my journey was
from 1998 up until that moment up until
that moment I'm just coming out of my
mom's house living with my mom in Monks
Corner South Carolina like I'm literally
I'm I just collected my last
unemployment check right you can't chill
nah I'm scared to death everything that
you saw was
me was was rooted in fear it was rooted
in I'm not going back to that so
whatever I have to do to not go back to
that I'm going to do that's why you see
the ruthless anybody can get it you know
it's it's still a lot of pain there that
I'm probably projecting on the other
people it's still a lot of hurt there
that I'm projecting on the other people
plus y'all done tried to fire me out of
this business four different times y'all
thought it was sweet when I was down in
Monks Corner South Carolina living back
home with my mom now all of y'all got to
feel my wrath like literally that's what
I was on and you know when you getting
when you're getting rewarded for that
that
fuels whatever that is Until you realize
like for me it was around 20 2015 you
like this this ain't this not what I
want how did you know that how did you
know just wasn't happy and I like at
this time I got two kids like my my
oldest is like seven at the time in 2015
and my newborn had just been been born
and like I got married in
2014 so it's like yo am I really about
to become my
pops you know am I really about to
become you know this I you know I love
this man I despise the way he you know
ended up you know treating his family us
treating my mom and I'm like yo am I
really going to be that am I really
goingon to get caught up in this radio
you know Radio Star and I'm putting star
in air quotes lifestyle you know am I
really GNA get caught up in the women am
I really going to get caught up in the
drugs am I really going to get caught up
in the alcohol am I really going to
become a character of myself this
character that I created you know to
protect you know this vulnerable young
man named lonard am I really going to
get caught up in that and and completely
lose myself am I going to do that or am
I going to you know get back on the path
that I know I'm supposed to be on am I
going to get back on that that that that
that that righteous path am I going to
do that so I chose to go the righteous
path sounds simple sounds like it was a
one an epiphany one day but I and that's
a man speaking in hindsight there and I
just want because there be a lot of
people that are in that moment where
they're looking at their life going is
this really who I'm going to be yeah
yeah you're right it's not simple
because you you you'll constantly lie to
yourself and I think that's why so many
people uh from the street always end up
in the same situation like there's
nowhere you going to go in any ghetto
America USA any rural Town USA where a
older person isn't going to tell a
younger person you keep living like that
you going to end up in jail or dead my
dad added the other one or broke sitting
broke sitting under the tree but
everybody thinks they can beat it
everybody thinks they can live a certain
lifestyle and if they just do this you
know then that won't happen or that
person was stupid that's why they ended
up like that nah you live a certain
lifestyle you move in a certain way all
of y'all going to meet the same fate and
it's no different you know um even in
even in that space like I was I was
absolutely about to crash I knew it how
just I just I just saw it coming like a
crash to me is losing your family you
know your leave in you like I don't want
that like who wants that I don't envy
those type I don't envy people like that
I don't envy people who and I'm not
knocking them in no way shape for but I
don't envy people who you know lost lost
their families because of infidelity and
now they got to visit their kids on the
weekend you know you you are unfaithful
to your wife oh yeah absolutely and
she's the love of your life I mean
there's very few people my soulmate 100%
you've been with her 30 plus years or
something6 26 this year absolutely
absolutely 26 years we were kids you
know and we we literally grew up
together in every sense of the word like
literally the first time I ever filed
out an application at a radio station
she drove me because my license was
suspended like we were together since
kids like literally like I I was at her
high school graduation I was at her
college graduation you know I mean like
she like I said she the first time I
ever filed that application at the radio
station she drove me like she went to
college in Columbia South Carolina I got
a radio job in Columbia South Carolina I
ended up getting a radio job in New York
she ends up getting a job in New York
City like our lives were just like that
all the time we couldn't escape each
other if we tried and to be honest with
you I would never want to because like
that has been the one constant in my
life that has been my muse forever that
has been the person who's constantly
made me want to be the best version of
myself even when I wasn't the best
version of myself you know because when
you ask God for certain things he's
going to give them to he or she is going
to give them to you so when you tell God
like this is what I want I want to be
with this person for the rest of my life
or I'm looking for a soulmate or I'm
looking for you know my My Hope Brady or
I'm looking for my you know CLA hustable
like he's going to give you that but are
you going to be prepared for it when you
get it same thing with any type of
success you
yeah God he or she may give you that but
are you prepared for it I think a lot of
us are you know a lot of us get things
that we're we're we're really not
prepared for and when we get those
things we're not prepared for we don't
hold on to them you nearly lost it I
feel like I did absolutely I feel like I
did it would it wouldn't have been worth
it even if I would have continued to
have success professionally in radio but
Meanwhile my personal life you know I
lose my wife I lose my family that's
that's not worth it that's there's no
way there's nowhere on this Earth where
that's a fair trade for me you start
going to therapy you go twice a week no
I always started off going once a week
oh really yeah when did you start going
to therapy 2016 either late either late
2015 or early 2016 why therapy who was
who told you that that was a good idea a
lot of people lot of black black men a
lot of black Americans period don't seek
Mental Health Care there's a huge
disparity it's almost 100% difference
between um white people and black people
seeking mental health MH a lot of people
I mean you know I'm a big fan of the the
TV show girlfriends grew up watching
girlfriends that's one one of my wife's
favorite shows so when I would go to her
her house when she was in college she
would have that on and we'd be watching
girlfriends and like if you watch
girlfriends a lot of them were going to
therapy that's the first time I even
heard of it right but then as I got
older talking to different people and
they were all you know ing from from men
women like I remember having
conversations with you know Neil Brennan
who's a comedian and he was in an
interview talking about the benefits of
therapy my my my Young Homie Pete
Davidson you know he was talking about
it you know my my home girl Debbie Brown
like she was really into it like not
just therapy but just all different
facets of healing like if you know
Debbie Brown now like you youd
understand why she was on that back then
like she's one of the leaders and the
mindfulness you know mental health space
right now I have some very exciting news
to share with all of you as of yesterday
you can find a 247 the Diary of a CEO
with Steven bartler Channel exclusively
on Samsung TV Plus in the UK and in the
Netherlands the channel will also be
launching shortly in Germany Switzerland
and Austria Samsung TV plus is Samsung's
own streaming service which is
pre-installed on all Samsung Smart TVs
and Galaxy mobile and tablets and it's
completely free so if you have a Samsung
TV go and watch the dire of a CEO on
your TV and please do me a favor take a
photo and tag me in it thank you what's
helped you to heal what's if you look at
the like tool kit you've used my
girlfriend's alternative healing breath
work practitioner super spiritual she's
helped me a lot with all of my child all
of that stuff all of it brother I didn't
I therapy meditation breathing exercises
I done did raiki uh you know I got I got
Crystals at home you know I do
plant-based medicine I I like all of it
are you ask set of s I've I've I've I've
I've done I've done an iwka Journey
that's that's when I that's what I was
talking about earlier when I said I went
on a a spiritual Retreat ah really yeah
early this year and that was South
America was it or somewhere else N N I
did it I did it I did it here in the
states it was it was a beautiful
beautiful ceremony um and it was man it
was very very very lifechanging like
that's where I got the the Revelation
the Revelation was you know stop lying
to yourself
and stop volunteering those lies to
other people it's like yo whatever um
wherever you're at in your life like for
me it's just like I want to show up and
be my authentic self at all times like
me that's what I want to do all the time
I don't matter where I'm at in my life I
want to present that
and being on that Journey it literally
ripped away every single ounce of
falsehood that existed it like it just
shattered it like B that gotta go like I
watched it in my mind like go up in
Flames like like literally what's the
cost if we live with those falsehoods
and those
lies
depression you know probably constant
anxiety you know a whole lot of
insecurities a whole lot of impostor
syndrome because you know I'm from the
country so I believe in simple sayings
like God can't bless who you pretend to
be
you know and I think that constantly we
got to we got to constantly check
ourselves and make sure we're always
showing up is who we are and we're not
pretending to be you know some version
of ourselves that's why that's why you
read get honest or die line I talk so
much about social media in the book
because I'm watching so many people lose
themselves to social media like I'm
talking about
intelligent well-educated well read
academics are are literally losing their
s to social media you can have
conversations with them and you realize
like all of their talking points are
coming from social media like their
their thought process is being dictated
by social media these people care more
about their relationships online than
they do their actual relationships
offline like I know people who are
personalities who have like you know uh
podcast or who may have YouTube shows
you know and these people will literally
be on Twitter all day be on redit all
day listen to what listening to what
people are saying about them reading
what people are saying about them and
crafting their thoughts just to talk to
them in that crowd to just please them
I'm like my God how narrow-minded is
that that's why for me man if you're if
if you claim to be an an academic or you
claim to be a well educated person you
came you claim to be a
uh an intelligent book smart person I
don't think you're that smart if your
emotional IQ is that low if your if your
emotional IQ is so low that people on
social media can dictate how you move
how you think how you talk you're not a
smart person to me smart people know how
to disconnect from that and smart people
know how to go you know do some
meditation to make sure that their
thoughts are absolutely positively their
own like I got people right now today
hitting my phone
trying to tell me how they feel about
the new Kendrick Lamar record and I love
Kendrick Lamar I think he's fantastic I
think Mr morale and the big steppers in
the future is going to be known as one
of the most hip-hop one of the most
important hip-hop albums of all time
that one in Jay-Z's 444 but people are
hitting me telling me their thoughts and
telling me their opinions and I'm
blocking all of that because I listen to
the record I listen to it five or six
times same I know what I got from it I
know what I feel about it and I'm not
letting y'all change my mind okay but
they're doing that because they know
that tomorrow when I'm on the air I'm
going to be talking about it so they're
trying to curate my thoughts and they're
trying to push my thoughts in a certain
direction I don't want that and I'm not
even I'm just using that Reg as an
example because it's the freshest thing
on my mind but I don't I'm like that
with anything I need my own Clarity I
need to I need to into my own
discernment what is my spirit telling me
about this situation or this moment or
this thing that's all I care about I
don't care about any of that noise that
exist uh on social
media that's that's giv you a real big
competitive advantage in many respects
because originality is so that's right
valuable that's right you're 100%
correct that's why I laugh at a lot of
these individuals because what also
happens is you know they start
whispering about me right and they start
wondering well why why is this happening
for him and why does he get to do this
and why why is that like why is that
going on like they looking you know cuz
I keep growing and they wonder why they
wonder why I keep growing and they don't
I tried to tell you
disconnect how you how how are you going
to grow when you're not even watering
your own garden because if if if you're
if if you're getting on social media and
you're reading what they're saying about
you and you're catering all your
thoughts and all your talking points to
appease those people you're not watering
your garden you're you're you're
literally trying to water somebody
else's so as you're you're as you're
watering somebody else's that continues
to grow and that continues to get louder
and louder and louder but meanwhile you
just stagnant it's scary though it's
scary to ignore and then to show up as
yourself in a world where we're
rewarding Conformity with the likes the
claps the okay you won't be cancelled
because you you fit in it's when you say
oh I'm going to disconnect I'm going to
be myself I'm going to be authentic I go
Jesus Christ that is man I get I get
attacked all the time for thoughts for
opinions because I don't go along with
with with with the mob and I'm not even
I'm not a contrarian in any way shape or
form I just know that nothing is black
nothing is white right there's always
those areas of gray in the middle
there's Nuance to everything like like
you can be objective about everything
right like there there there has to be a
certain level of well let me see what
this person is coming from you got to
hear both sides to me that's just common
sense and I feel like the only way to
get the real truth about anything is if
you see where both sides are coming from
I can't just dismiss you as wrong
because you have a different opinion
than mine or you feel differently than
mine I got to hear where you're coming
from first there's no political party
called nuance and we we're we're we're
in an election year I know this as well
I think if I if I wanted to go viral I
just got to do a hot take for either
side because there's algorithms for that
there's a group of people that are going
to pick that up and retweet it and send
it but the people in the middle it's
there's no and we're going into this
election year now where there's I've
heard you say there's really no great
choices yeah but on that point you just
said about being able to see the other
side
what you think about
Trump I think that uh I mean I say this
everywhere I go I think Donald Trump is
a threat to democracy you know I don't
think that you should have
anybody uh especially in the United
States you can't have a leader of a
country who says said said he we should
suspend the Constitution to overthrow
the results of an election I mean he he
led an attempted coup of this country
like we watched it we saw it you know
um yeah I just don't think a person like
that should be president of the United
States of America I think that if you're
facing you know the type of criminal
charges that he's facing what is it 80
86 counts or something like that now 86
counts 88 counts I can't remember the
exact number but if I was facing 88
counts of any criminal charge I wouldn't
be able to work at Walmart nonetheless
you know run to be president of the
United States of America so I just don't
think that he's you know he's he's he's
not somebody that should should be in
that position but I understand why he is
in that position because he's he's he's
good at messaging what do you think
about the people that follow
Trump do do you think they're good
people some of them that even that even
that is a very broad question right like
when you say what do you think about the
people that follow Trump those people
aren't monolithic yeah yeah all of those
all of those people those 70 plus
million people who voted for Trump a lot
of them voted for Donald Trump for a for
a lot of different reason
I have actual friends who will remain
nameless who I know voted for Donald
Trump and I know they're great people
and they didn't vote they not they're
black they're also black too and they're
not like the they're not black
conservatives they're not in any way
shape or form they are black like Pro
black individuals and like that's what I
mean when I say having conversations
with people because you get to see why
people do you know different things I
know
why that person told me they voted for
Donald Trump back in you know 2016 just
like I know individuals now who tell me
why they they they voted for him in 2016
or or or 2020 and you can't
just chalk everybody up to being a
racist you know you can't just chalk
everybody up to you know not caring uh
about lgbtq issues or whatever it is
people have different reasons and
interests why they vote for people it
might be one thing it might be one
interest that they vote for that's what
they always tell you right they tell you
to vote your interest so it's the same
thing with a with a President Biden I
can look at a million things that
President Biden has done that I do not
like the 80 86 mandatory minimum
sentencing the 88 crack laws the 94
crime Bill all of that I there's a
million things I can point to and say I
don't like that he he he did this but if
the if if the one interest is to at
least protect democracy in 2000 in in in
24 or if you're somebody who got their
student loan debt wiped away you that
might be it if you're somebody who can
afford instantly now because of
President B that might be the reason you
vote for him so it's just like everybody
has different reasons as to why they
vote for different candidates that's why
you I don't even think the question is
fair when you say what do you think
about the people who voted for such and
such like I'm not the I'm not the person
I vote
for when we get to speak to those people
we understand their motives until then
we kind of misunderstand them and I
think right I see that Crossover with
you and your father because eventually
you had a conversation with him you
talked about that conversation at the
very beginning of this one where you
finally had empathy for him and his
experience and his life that
conversation with your father where you
rebuilt your relationship and finally
understood him did that help your
healing Journey absolutely 100% because
like I said I never quite had the
relationship uh with my father that I I
wanted to and it's I mean it's not too
late he's still here right um
but yeah it did because I realized in
that moment that he was just a man who
was just doing his best and he didn't
have the tools that I have he didn't
have the resources that I have even
though he was going to therapy two and
three times a week even though he was on
the 10 to he was on 10 to 12 different
medications the state of South Carina
just started giving him a check we used
to call that a crazy check back in the
day you just get a check for being crazy
like I knew people who used to play
Crazy to get a check I remember when I
went to my mom and said yo did you know
dad was going through all of this and
she was like yeah I just thought he was
playing crazy to get a check so it's
like all of those you know if if if I
would have known when I was young if he
would have told me all of those things
when I was young then I probably would
have ended up on a totally different
path much earlier I guess that's another
example of like you know Role Models
right because I think another time A lot
of times when we say role models we
think it has to be just about all the
good a person is doing but if a person
has dealt with a lot of the things that
you're going through because a lot of
this stuff is genetic right like if a
person is dealing with their own anxiety
if a person is dealing with their own
you know bout to depression my father he
was already in therapy he was already on
10 to 12 different medications he tried
to commit suicide if he would have told
me all of that when I was young I would
have known what I was dealing with I
would have been able to be like oh okay
I'm I'm dealing with that it's the same
way you can see it in your kids you can
when when your kids are dealing with
those things you can look at them and be
like okay I know I know what that is
because you know I went through that to
me that's being that's good even though
my dad was dealing with all those issues
but him if he was just telling me when I
was young if he would have just told me
when I was young this is what he was
dealing with then that would have been a
good model for me to follow cuz I would
have known what it is I need you know to
do much much earlier than I
did my last question before we go to the
book for you um this is a question that
I think is Central to why especially
don't really talk about their feelings
or at least it's a question that I think
we often just diminish which I wanted to
ask you very simple question we ask each
other this question every single day
which is um and please do give me the
long answer how are you
doing I right now I'm doing great I am I
am blessed black and highly favored I'm
doing fantastic you know I just came uh
I just had a fantastic weekend man like
we were in uh Atlanta
Georgia um cuz I did my second annual
black effect podcast Festival cuz you
know have a podcast Network called the
black effect and you know we're the home
of you know like 30 various podcasts you
know everybody from the 85 South show
the horrible decisions to you know
carefully Reckless with J hilarious you
know all the smoke with Matt Bond and
Stephen Jackson like we have a bunch of
different you know um podcast and we
just had our second annual black effect
podcast Festival in Atlanta and it's
such a beautiful event because podcast
in is such a such a new
industry and to be able to curate a
space
where it's like seven or eight of your
favorite podcasts on
stage people are from from 11 to 7
o'clock at night 11:00 a.m. to 7 o'clock
at night we got all the food trucks we
got the vendors we got the merchandise
like it's a festival so to be able to
have a real live podcast Festival to be
doing it for the second year in a row to
see this you know community of creatives
you know just come together for the day
that's very fulfilling to me and you
know another thing we do during the
festival is we um we bring three people
out from HBCU because you know Nissan is
one of our sponsors of the sponsors of
the festival so we bring these three uh
kids out from these HBCU CU another
event that we do throughout the year
with the black effect it's called The
Thrill of possibility Summit and we fly
50 HP students to Nashville and we just
have a weekend of like panels for them
and we have different you know uh people
who went to HBCU who've gone on to have
tremendous success in the world come and
just pour into them all weekend long so
we had those three individuals come
speak uh HBCU yeah historically black
colleges University so we had three
people from The Summit come to the black
effect podcast Festival just to talk
about the summit and you know how how
fulfilling it was for them and then
we're doing it again this year and the
reason that gives me such a high is
because man I'm I'm I'm All About
service man like that's what I'm about
at this point in my life I say all the
time if I'm building things whatever I
build nowadays if it only benefits me
it's not big enough and the things that
I'm building now you know whether it's
my black effect podcast Network whether
it's you know the company me and Kevin
Hart got at audible called SB
Productions whether it's the you know
the book imprint black privilege
publishing with Simon and Shuster I'm
able to provide so many people
opportunities like we got got staffs and
you know we got presidents you know of
our of our of our companies like and you
know we're able to partner with people
and you know Ride book deals and podcast
deals and all of these different things
so it's just like that is what is
fulfilling to me and then being able to
take those resources and do things like
the Thriller possibility something we're
pouring into these HBC HBC youth
students so I got a nonprofit called the
you know mental wealth Alliance you know
where our goal is to get 10,000 black
and brown people free free therapy over
the next 5 years I do a Expo every year
I think I'm on my like my fourth year
fifth year of that called the mental
wealth expo here in New York it's a free
event I bring some of the best
psychiatrists and therapists and
spiritual leaders and I've seen it yeah
I own the domain name mental wealth.com
so if you want it for free you can have
it I was going to do something with it I
bought it five years ago for no I bought
it five years ago for a project wow and
then I saw you post on Instagram an
event called mental wealth I was
thinking damn I've got this domain name
and he's doing something with it so you
can have it it's just sat there I'll
send we'll send
that would be fantastic no I saw what
you're doing it's incredible I can't
think of a better reason to for someone
to do with that that domain So yeah
thank you so that's all so to answer
your question I'm doing great and the
reason I'm doing great is because I
realize that um your true purpose in
life will come through service to others
Dr Wayne W Dyer says that in the power
of intention I read that years ago and
didn't understand what it meant I'm
talking about I got I read this 20 plus
years ago and didn't quite understand
that that what that meant your true
purpose in life will come through
service to others I over understand what
that means now that's not the way
culture's gone culture's become less
religious less Community more about
yourself your own goals your own
individual being less about others less
about a higher power and it's so
interesting because as I've had these
conversations over the years I was Rel I
was religious until I was 18 years old
my mom's religious I was baptized raised
in a Christian household and I lost that
religion and with that you lose the
church
and then social media made me more
individualistic get the get the lambo I
was this broke kid dropped out of
University trying to get the range over
sport in the Mansion I got those things
the anticlimax something's missing going
in search of more and I've almost found
myself right back at the beginning again
going I said it yesterday I was like
damn I wish I was still religious but
what I'm searching for is what youve
said I'm searching for service in my
life yeah because listen I grew up Brook
so when you grew up Brook I grew up I
grew up broke but I grew up watching my
grandma even if you know we didn't have
much she all always knew how to whip up
a lot of food yeah and so whoever was in
the yard could come to my grandma's
house and eat same thing with my pops my
pops was the guy who like they all like
frying fish you here you going to eat
you know hey we got drinks you going to
drink so to me that was service that was
early versions of service so I've always
you know known that you know you got to
you got to give to receive like that's
just how I how I grew up so being that I
never had much you know growing up um I
just always felt like that was the way
for me to show up for people like do
something for them and now that I got
you know a lot of
resources that's just Amplified you know
like I really I I used to look at people
that would put philanthropist in their
bio and be like what what all you doing
is giving money like what does that even
mean but now you like
I understand I get it when you can go to
your mother's Alma moer South Carolina
State University and say I am starting a
scholarship fund and my mother's name
the Ford family endowment scholarship
and I'm going to donate this amount of
money a large amount of money right and
I you can look it up and see how much it
was I mean by the way it wasn't that
large because Mr Clyburn who's a
congressman here in South Carolina I
remember the day that we did it we were
both donating money to South Carolina
State University cuz that's where his
his his uh beautiful wife Emily went
she's from my hometown he literally said
to me you should go first and I was like
nah n n you go first and he was like n
you you should go first and I was like n
you should go first he like no you go
first I'm like all right so I went first
you know they hold up my check I say it
was a quar million dollars right blessed
I'm happy to be able to receive that I
mean to give that Mr curn goes up it was
like 1.3 million you know he goes up and
he and he was like and I was was like
you were right i' see why you wanted me
to go first but my point with all that
is the fact that I'm able to do things
like that yeah man that means the world
to me and that's literally what I just
want to do for the rest of my life I
want to be able to provide
opportunities to people I want to be of
service that's it that's all we're here
for it's self selfish and selfless at
the same time and both of those things
because as you said you you said said by
giving you get so much yeah there's only
so much you can get from the Lamborghini
right and like I've never wanted that in
my life and you know what's so crazy I
used to say that when I was broke and
when you say it when you're broke you
sound like a hater and you see a nice
car like I don't want that well you
can't afford it yeah you know how when
you know you really mean that when you
can afford it and you still don't want
it I don't want it what the hell am I do
with a Lamborghini what am I going to do
with a Bentley what am I going to do
with a phantom like what why does that
need to be in my yard you know what I
have to say but we don't have especially
like I grew up on rap videos I grew up
on 50 c on MTV and all that stuff and
that was model to me and it's model to a
lot of young black men as success and
it's so nice to hear people like you say
listen you don't that's not that's and
fact you're doing yourself a disservice
because it's a some of those things are
really bad use of your funds like go and
invest a lot of the these other a lot of
other people have a dad at the table
who's an investor and knows to put it
into a this investment fund or this
investment fund and I think some of our
role models growing up said okay if you
get that kind of money you go spend it
on champagne in a nightclub and
something else which is going to make it
go to zero yeah most of that stuff is
ritten too like when you look at those
rap videos most of that stuff wasn't
even wasn't even theirs so yeah I've
done that I've I've gone to Miami and
and and my partner E-class salute to
E-class he's the the founder and CEO of
of the licking restaurants in Miami he
toss me his keys to his big bins back in
the day and I drive it around Miami I'm
cool I get my fix I don't need to have
one of those at home you know what I'm
saying I don't need it like that that
stuff does absolutely positively nothing
for me in any way shape or form we have
a closing tradition on this podcast
where the last guest leaves a question
for the next guest not knowing who
they're going to be leaving it for and
the question that's been left for you in
the Dio
is what are you most afraid of
feeling
[__]
grief grief the grief the grief of
death
100% 100% the grief of death that's the
thing that like if I was an actor or an
actress I I would never be an actress
well I mean I guess I could be in 2024
if I wanted to be but if if if I was an
actor that like if you know how they
tell you you got to cry on que like it's
C it's that like that that that's the
thing that I dismiss out of my mind
because it's just certain things like I
always say the things you want to happen
in your life you constantly think about
and you speak about the things you don't
want to happen in your life you don't
think about you don't speak about your
thoughts creep up on you but when they
do creep up on you you just got to push
them out but for definitely for me man
it's that feeling of um that feeling of
of of of grief when somebody close to
you passes like like that
is man I i' I've had some like really
traumatic things happen to people that I
genuinely love like you know I haven't
lost a parent God bless you know not
going I haven't lost a parent um I
haven't lost a mate you know a wife a
significant I haven't that hasn't
happened to me but I've had that happen
to people who are very very very very
close to me I haven't lost a child God
bless you know
so yeah people that people that have had
have have experienced that I truly truly
truly truly truly truly feel for and I
know that we all will that I I hope I
don't I hope my kids bury me you know
man I hope my my wife buries me but um
yeah that's that's the feeling that I
don't want to want to feel even though I
know I probably will at some point in
life a long long long long long long
long long long time from now but n you
don't you don't you don't want to feel
that thank you thank you for for so much
I think
um I can't imagine how many people's
lives and relationships you've saved by
making the what many people would
consider the Brave and vulnerable
decision to speak to speak about your
own struggles and to as you've said said
step into an authenticity that's what
you do in this book but that's what
you've been doing long before long
before you came here you've been doing
that for years now and it had an impact
on me imagine that I'm thousands and
thousands of miles away in my own room
I'm feeling anxiety for the first time
in my life and I see this man who I love
watching he's an Entertainer I see him
of all people because he's a black man
and black man never speak on these
things I see him speaking about it and I
go damn this isn't me being broken this
isn't something that I should hide this
isn't something that I should be ashamed
of this is something that happens to all
people and it's not evidence of my
inadequacy it's actually evidence that
I'm a human being too you're human man
like there's there's nothing inadequate
about any of us like we're literally all
Spiritual Beings Liv in a human human
existence and that human existence is is
is is going to go through a lot but at
the end of the day like I think you said
it earlier man we all got to return back
to to to Spirit like I I love uh I love
the movie uh well not the movie the the
book American Gods it became a a TV show
and you know in the book American Gods
one of the new Gods was the Internet
it's like internet boy social social
media and I think that too many of us
man are submitting our will to the
internet literally we're submitting our
will to the internet and if you talk to
anybody who works in Silicon Valley
they'll tell you that the internet it
literally thrives off the seven deadly
sins the seven deadly sins it thrives
off of those it is fueled by the seven
deadly sins so if you're submitting your
will to something that is fueled by the
seven deadly sins then what are you
fueled by and you you wonder why the
anxiety is is is so crazy you wonder why
the insecurity is so crazy you wonder
why the impostor syndrome is so crazy
you wonder why the depression is so
crazy it's because you're worshiping
that that should be a
tool that's what that's that's what you
should treat as a tool like you wouldn't
walk around with a hammer in your pocket
and you wouldn't be pulling out that
hammer all day and just looking at it
and staring at it you wouldn't be
pulling up that that screwdriver all day
and just looking at it and staring at it
so why are we doing that with our phones
why are we all in verbally you know
abusive relationships with social media
we literally go especially when you're a
public figure you'll go on these these
Pages just to read people talk about how
bad you are these are all people that
are dealing with the same things you're
dealing with the hurt the pain the
anxiety the depression the insecurity
impost syndrome they don't it it brings
them joy to talk like that to you and
hope that it gets to you in some way
shape or form so why are we letting that
in here we can't have all these
conversations about mental health and
not really truly be protecting our
mental amen yes sir everybody needs to
go get this book um get honest or or die
lying and I think it's been one of the
biggest Inspirations for me to really
get closer to being my authentic self in
every sense of the word and it's also
made a really good case to me as to the
power of that authenticity because
people say I'll be authentic whatever
and they say that's part of their like
virtue siging status games but it's it's
so clear to me that it's one of the
greatest Services you can do to yourself
and those that matter most to you in
your life I'm going to link this book
below everybody needs to go and buy a
copy and don't forget the why Small Talk
sucks part that is that is actually the
most important part to me
because what we just had here was a
macro conversation and I think a lot of
times you know in this world that we
live in we're having too many small
conversations like we make micros macros
like literally and once again that's
what social media does it takes these
micros and it makes them macros and you
don't realize that they're micros until
you get out into the real world and you
walk up to somebody and you talking like
hey did you see such and such and that
person's like no I didn't and you like
what do you mean it's trending number
one on Twitter and they're like I don't
know what the [__] you talking about
like that's literally the world that we
live in so when I say why Small Talk
sucks I'm not just talking about like
when somebody's trying to make CH
chatter with you like you know I hate
that too I can't stand it but I'm
talking about just those small
conversations those small conversations
we have we're we're we're talking too
small we're thinking too small so this
book is literally giving you some things
to just simply talk big about to think
to think big about that's why I end
every chapter by saying let's discuss
cuz I'm not an expert at anything I'm
not an expert at nothing I just got some
experiences and I got some thoughts and
I put them in that that book and you
read them and next time you find
yourself in a situation where you feel
like the conversation is too small I
want you to say
yo charag Lenard he said we don't got to
do this we don't we don't we can we can
sit here in silence or we can talk about
this in this way in this large way and
hopefully you know when you start doing
that you'll start having more fulfilling
conversations like uh this one I just
had was with you thank you so much thank
you so much you're an honest massive
inspiration to me in every sense of the
word and uh you're so right about the
small talk I think my relationship
wouldn't exist after 5 years if I didn't
figure out how to start having big talk
uncomfortable conversations with my
woman um and that's changed my life it's
made me a better it's made me better
inside my head and it's it's saved the
thing that I care about most in my life
at the moment which is my relationship
with her and a lot of men they don't
have the tools they don't have the role
models and hopefully you know they can
look to you and this book now as a as
that guidance and that framework for for
how toel model ourselves in such a way I
have to say I have to shout out your
podcast as well the brilliant idiots
because one of my favorites I was
watching the other day when you you guys
were talking about all the the Drake
Kendrick stuff like that and he was
doing the little white thing and saying
about the the it's just so hilarious and
it's the best combination of podcast
Andrew Schultz is the best standup
comedian in the business today I think
he is the best I I bought his
pay-per-view for his when he did the
online thing it was incredible oh the
infamous yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
absolutely thank you so much really
really appreciate it appreciate you
brother thank you
oh
[Music]